Clarify client anti-amplification response (#3445)
quicwg/base-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-transport.md

necessary. Sending padded datagrams ensures that the server is not overly
constrained by the amplification restriction.

Loss of an Initial or Handshake packet from the server can cause a deadlock if
the client does not send additional Initial or Handshake packets. The server can

> reach its anti-amplification limit, but the clients Initial data has been

Reviewer: This is missing an apostrophe on Clients. But more seriously, it looks like a sentence fragment. 

Maybe move the part about the client not sending up into this sentence. 

> The server can reach its anti-amplification limit, but the client has no reason to send more packets as all the data it has sent has been acknowledged.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion, I took it and then tweaked it.  PTAL.

necessary. Sending padded datagrams ensures that the server is not overly
constrained by the amplification restriction.

Loss of an Initial or Handshake packet from the server can cause a situation in
which the server cannot send due to the anti-amplification limit
and the client has no data to send because client Initial data has been

> acknowledged and it does not yet have Handshake data to send. In order to avoid

Reviewer: This long compound sentence probably needs to be split up.

> Loss of an Initial or Handshake packet from the server can cause a deadlock if the client does not send additional Initial packets.  The server can reaches its anti-amplification limit (see {{xxx}}), but the client has received and acknowledged Initial packets without having a need to send a Handshake packet.  In this case, where the client would otherwise not send any additional packets, the server will be unable to send because it has not received enough from the client.  To prevent this deadlock, clients MUST send a packet on a probe timeout, or PTO; see Section XX of {{QUIC-RECOVERY}}.  If [...]

Author: Thanks, I tried to rewrite based on your suggestion.  Tell me what you think.

necessary. Sending padded datagrams ensures that the server is not overly
constrained by the amplification restriction.

Loss of an Initial or Handshake packet from the server can cause a deadlock if

> the client does not send additional Initial or Handshake packets.  The server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the client does not send additional Initial or Handshake packets. This can happen because the server
```

> can reach its anti-amplification limit, but if the client has received

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can reach its anti-amplification limit, and if the client has received
```

> acknowledgements for all the data is has sent, it has no reason to send more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
acknowledgements for all the data it has sent, it has no reason to send more
```

packets. In this case, where the client would otherwise not send any

> additional packets, the server will be unable to send because it has not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
additional packets, the server will be unable to send more data because it has not
```

> received enough from the client or validated the clients address. To prevent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
received enough data from the client or has not validated the client's address. To prevent
```

> this deadlock, clients MUST send a packet on a probe timeout, or PTO;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
this deadlock, clients MUST send a packet on a probe timeout (PTO, 
```

> see Section 5.3 of {{QUIC-RECOVERY}}. In this case, the client MUST send an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
see Section 5.3 of {{QUIC-RECOVERY}}). Specifically, the client MUST send an
```

Initial packet in a UDP datagram of at least 1200 bytes if it does not have
Handshake keys, and otherwise send a Handshake packet.

> 

Reviewer 3: Yes. The next question is, what content shall the client place in the Initial or Handshake packet? Just PAD? Ping and PAD?

Reviewer: It seems to me that this doesn't matter.  Probing generally goes for ack-eliciting, and some might favour sending data over just a PING, but if the server only needs more bytes, it shouldn't matter if this is PADDING, PING, or CRYPTO.

Reviewer 3: I would favor pure pad, personally, so as to not require its own ack, retransmit, etc. Also, sending it with the proper DCID will get the server out of the DOD amplification control mode.

Reviewer: A proper, updated DCID isn't guaranteed to unblock the server. That is why we haven't expressly allowed for that to be used.

Reviewer 3: I am not asking for a change in the current text. This PR is fine.
